Landslide Early Warning නායයෑම් පිළිබඳ පෙර අනතුරු ඇඟවීම kz;rhpT Kd;ndr;rhpf;if Message ID : LEWM-19-12-2023-1600-99 Update : 99 th update Validity Period : From 16:00 hrs on 19.12.2023 To 16:00 hrs on 20.12.2023

Locations for Potential Risk නායයෑපම් අවදානම ෙැවතිය හැකි ප්‍රපේශ fdjpahd mghaKs;s ,lq;fs;

District Level 1 (Yellow) Level 2 (Amber) Level 3 (Red)

Badulla

Passara, Ella and Haldummulla Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Hali Ela Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Hambantota

Katuwana, Walasmulla, Beliatta and Okewela Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Kalutara

Walallawita, Horana and Agalawatta Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Palindanuwara and Ingiriya Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Kandy

Ududumbara, Udapalatha, Gangawata Korale, Pathadumbara and Medadumbara Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Thumpane, Yatinuwara and Pasbage Korale Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Kegalle

Galigamuwa Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Dehiowita Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Kurunegala

Mawathagama, Rideegama and Polgahawela Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Matale

Ukuwela, Laggala Pallegama, Naula and Ambanganga Korale

Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Matara

Kotapola and Pitabeddara Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Athuraliya and Pasgoda Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Nuwara Eliya

Kothmale and Ambagamuwa Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Hanguranketha and Walapane Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Ratnapura

Eheliyagoda, Elapatha, Kahawaththa, Openayake, Weligepola, Kolonna, Godakawela and Kuruwita Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Kalawana, Balangoda, Nivithigala, Imbulpe and Kiriella Divisional Secretariat Division(s) (DSD) and surrounding areas.

Note: ↑shifted one level up, ↑↑shifted two levels up, ↓shifted one level down, ↓↓shifted two levels down. *newly added with the last update Special Note: These warning levels are issued based on the cumulative rainfall received to respective areas and given weather forecast by meteorological department of Sri Lanka

Areas and places which need special attention All mountainous areas, manmade cut slopes and roads within the relevant DS divisions අදාල ප්‍රාදේශීය දේකම් දකාට්ඨාශ තුල පිහිටි කඳුකර බෑවුම් හා ඒ ආශ්‍රිත ප්‍රදේශ තුල පිහිටි නිර්මිත gpuNjr nrayf gphptpDs;shd rfy kiyg;ghq;fhd gFjpfs; kw;Wk; ntl;lg;gl;l epyr; rha;Tfs; Specially: All the landslide susceptible areas previously identified by NBRO. විපේෂ: ජාතික ද ාඩනැගිලි පර්මදේෂණ සංවිධානය විසින් නායයෑදම් අවදානමක් ඇති දලස පුර්මවදයන් හදුනාද න ඇති ප්‍රදේශ tpNrlkhf: NBROtpdhy; Kd;dh; milahsg;gLj;jg;gl;l kz;rhpTf;fhd VjepiyAs;s rfy gpuNjrq;fs;.

Previous Message ID : LEWM-18-12-2023-1600-98

Issued by: Approved by:

Duty Officer Director - LRRMD

19-12-2023, 16:00 hrs

Date and time issued

Landslide Research and Risk Management Division

National Building Research Organisation