Situation Report

Heavy rains, flooding, landslides, cutting failures

1230 hours 06-06-2021

DISASTER MANAGEMENT CENTER

STATE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL SECURITY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT

245,212 People

affected

831 Houses

Damaged

84 Divisions in 10 Districts affected

19,055 People in 72 safety centers

14 deaths, 02 missing

Sri Lanka

2

2. CURRENT SITUATION

1. HIGHLIGHTS

 Due to activation of South-West monsoon winds, very heavy rains were received from 02nd June till 5th

June and most parts of the South Western region received more than 300mm rainfall within 24 hours and maximum reported was 346mm in Dummalasooriya on 3rd June (Puttalam district).

 As a result due to heavy rainfall, strong winds and few landslides a total of 245,212 people (60,674 fami-

lies) got affected in ten (10) districts, since 02nd May 2021. Furthermore, 14 deaths were reported, and 02 persons suffered minor injuries whilst 02 persons were missing due to floods and cutting failures.

 14 houses fully and 817 houses partially have been damaged mostly in the Ratnapura and Gampaha dis-

tricts. At present in certain places, Kelani, Kalu, Attanagaluoya & Mahaoya rivers are at minor flooding or alert levels, however, rivel levels are falling in many areas.

 A total amount of 15,658 people belonging to 3,520 families have been highly impacted and evacuated to

72 safety centres set up to assist the displaced. Most of these safety centres are in the Colombo (32), Gampaha (16), Kalutara (10) and Ratnapura (10) districts. Some 3,397 of these displaced people are residing with relatives or friends houses. Total of LKR 74.5 Mn has been allocated by NDRSC for emer-gency relief purposes for ten districts.

 SAR teams of Army and Navy were deployed in all affected areas in the districts of Gampaha, Colombo,

Kegalle, Ratnapura, Galle, and Puttalam districts who needed assistance. These SAR teams provided cooked meals and drinking water for the displaced persons whilst assisting Electricity Board to rectify electricity failures due to fallen trees and high winds.

Due to torrential rains in last two days, many areas were inundated in Galle, Gampaha, Kalutara, Ratnapura, Put-talam and Colombo districts due to flash flooding, blockage of drainages and river overflows. Due to the heavy rainfall received, 10 districts got affected and as of today and flood water is receding in some areas since heavy rainfall reduced since yesterday.

Most affected areas were Kolonnawa, Kaduwela & Kotte in Colombo district; Wattala, Kelaniya, Biyagama, Ekala, Ja-Ela, Katana, Gampaha in Gampaha district; Ehaliyagoda in Ratnapu-ra district; Millaniya in Kalutara district.

Some families were evacuated in Kegalle, Gampaha, Galle, Co-lombo, Ratnapura and Kalutara districts due to high risk and residing in 72 safety centres.

FIGURE 1: Affected population and area mapping, as of 0930rs 06.06.2021

Area Status

Kalutara Paragoda & Yatigampitiya areas (Molkawa-Bulathsinhala) & Midalana in Baduraliya Kala-wana roads are inundated

Ratnapura Landslides are reported in Ayagama & Eheli-yagoda Gampaha Rathgahawatta area of Biyagama Kelanira road inundated, Minuwangoda-Veyangoda road is inundated, Low-lying areas of Wat-tala & Jaela sub-merged Kegalle Landslides reported in Aranayaka & Wara-kapola

3

3. DISASTER RESPONSE AND RELIEF

The Disaster Management Centre of the State Ministry of Disaster Management has coordinated the re-sponse and relief efforts with the military and local administrative agencies and mobilised SAR teams for nec-essary rescue operations. Some relief equipment has already been dispatched to the needy areas to manage relief operations.

Army troops were mobilized to Dumbara in Ratnapura, Aranayaka in Kelgalle and Meerigama in Gampaha to rescue people impacted by landslides with the coordination of DMC. Army troops recovered 4 dead bodies in Aranayaka landslide after 8 hours rescue efforts in 5th June.

The Navy has deployed 22 teams, Army has deployed 03 teams, Police 01 team covering Southwestern dis-tricts that are at risk of floods for rescue and relief operations. Meanwhile, Navy relief teams on 04th June 2021 rescued 29 people, including women and children, who were in a desperate situation tapped by the flash flood. In addition, Army and Navy teams have provided cooked food for impacted population due to access issues in Gampaha & Colombo districts.

Due to the inclement weather currently prevailing on the island, a SLAF Bell 412 Helicopter from the #4 Hel-icopter Squadron was deployed 04th June, on a reconnaissance mission to evaluate the flooding situation which is threatening several districts. Several stranded people in Puttalam district were rescued by Police and Navy teams due to floods.

National Disaster Relief Services Centre (NDRSC) has allocated LKR 74.5 million for response & relief ser-vices in affected districts based on ground requirements and the State Ministry of Disaster Management may allocate more funding depending on further needs. WFP has donated a consignment of PPE and health safety items to DMC for the immediate response efforts by first responders in highly affected areas.

Water stagnations are still reported in Kaduwela, Kolonnawa in Colombo District, Biyagama, Wattala, Ja-ela, Kelaniya, Gampaha in Gampaha District, and necessary relief efforts are provided by district administration with the support of military teams.

4. CURRENT NEEDS AND SERVICES

Sector Activities /items

Water, sanitation and hygiene • Provide supplies to affected households (hygiene kits, soap, disinfectant kits and handwashing)

• Restore damaged septic tanks of most vulnerable households

• Clean affected/damaged wells and rehabilitate the damaged wells

Food security • Distribution of supplementary food/snack packs

• Distribution of cash/nutritious foods to households with displaced pregnant women and lactating mothers

Health • Strengthen health promotion and surveillance to prevent outbreak of disease, provision of personnel protective kits and hand sanitizer liquid

Emergency Shelter and NFI • Provision of shelter repair items for those households whose houses have been partially or destroyed

• Distribution of NFI (Non-Food Items) kits, including (as needed) dignity kits, cooking pots and pans, plates, utensils, a cooker, a torch, buckets, mosquito nets and bedding or cash/voucher for NFIs

Table 01: Current needs and services in highly affected districts

4

Department of Meteorology: Forecast 06th June 2021- Showers or thundershowers will occur at times in Western, Sabaragamuwa and North-western provinces and in Galle, Matara, Nuwara-Eliya and Kandy districts. Fairly heavy falls about 50 mm can be expected at some places in these areas. Showers or thundershow-ers will occur at a few places in Uva and Eastern provinces during the evening or night.

Landslide alert: The National Building Research Organization has issued high risk alert for Ingiriya, Pal-indanuwara, Bulathsinhala, Agalawatta and Mathugama in Kalutara district, Kalawana, Ayagama, Kiriella & Eheliyagoda in Ratnapura district, Ambagamuwa in Nuwara-Eliya District, Yatiyantota, Dehiowita, Bu-lathkohupitiya, Deraniyagala, Kegalle, Warakapola, Galigamuwa, Ruwanwella, Aranayaka, Mawanella & Rambukkana in Kegalle District until night of 06 June 2021. Further, medium level risk is pertaining to some areas in Colombo, Galle, Gampaha, Kalutara, Kandy, Matale districts until same period.

6. FORECAST AND ADVISORY

5. RIVER STATUS IN HIGHLY AFFETED AREAS

Table 02: Major river status at 1230hrs on 06.06.2021, Department of Irrigation

5

Responsible Agency/Unit Officer Contact Email

Response Operation Coordination-DMC

Director- Emergency

Operations

0773957903 direoc@dmc.gov.lk

National Disaster Relief Services General 0112665342 sahana.ndrsc@gmail.com

Emergency Operation Centre

DMC

Duty Officer 0773957900

0112670002

0702117117

eocdmc@dmc.gov.lk

Military Resources Mobilization

Coordination

Military Coordinator

0772095328 miltorycoordinator@dmc.gov.lk

Emergency Call Centre Duty Officer 117 eocdmc@dmc.gov.lk

Checked by:

—————————————————

Brigadier Prasanna Wijesooriya

Director - Emergency Operations

Disaster Management Centre

Approved by:

—————————————————

Major General (Retd). S. Ranasinghe

Director General

Disaster Management Centre

Emergency contact information

FIGURE 2: Affected families rescued by SAR teams in Dumbara, Ratnapura: Source SL Army

This report was produced with the technical support of World Food Programme (WFP)